Content Survey

1. Personal Bio (Page)
    (Picture)
    a. Where I come from.
        I grew up in Renton, Washington with my family. My parents are Craig and
        Mary Alford and I have three older brothers. I was homeschooled growing
        up which provided me with a large amount of free time. In this time I
        would play with my cousins out in the woods and local creek. As I grew
        older I got into video games on the pc. During the summers I would play
        ultimate frisbee with my friends. Throughout most of my life I attended
        Trinity Baptist Church where most of my friends were. In my senior year
        of high school I began to attend Bellevue College where I got the
        equivalence of a AA degree. I learned American Sign Language while I was
        there. After this I got my first job at QFC working in the deli. The
        next Fall I began to attend Biola University in Los Angeles. While there
        I participated in intramural frisbee and Residence Life. In spring 2017
        I graduated with a BS in Computer Science and moved back to Renton.
    b. Who I am.
        I am first and foremost a Christian. I am currently a programmer with an
        interest in website design. Things I am passionate about include:
        masculinity, food, racial reconciliation, design, and Spiritual
        Formation. I am skilled at: learning, getting to know people, and
        listening.
    c. Where I am going.
        I would like to become project manager or something that combines coding
        and a larger amount of human interaction. I want to become better at
        listening to people and just being with them. I want to learn more about
        the above issues through engaging with people and self study. Overall I
        want to try to live my life with excellence.

2. Work (Tabs)
    a. Summary
        Working on one.
    b. Jobs
        Software Developer Intern, Key Technologies - Jun. 6th - Jul. 22nd 2016
            -Participated in a software development team to the benefit of those involved
            -Learned Agile methods through observation and self study
            -Understood object orient programming through reading and pair programming
            -Gained a proficiency in SmallTalk through self study and use of the language
        Supplies Representative, Contract Billing Assistant, QBSI-Xerox - Sum. 2015 and Jan. 2016
            -Effectively navigated customer needs and manager expectations while providing excellent  customer service
            -Maintained consistent performance while learning on the job
            -Managed complex projects through effective communication with co-workers and management
            -Practiced professional communication both internally and externally via telephone, email, and face to face
        Resident Advisor, Biola University - Aug. 2016 - May 2017
            -Productively Worked with a team to plan events for a dorm of 200+ people
            -Provided helpful resources to students of all academic levels
            -Effectively upheld community standards with care and compassion

    c. Education
        Bachelors of Science in Computer Science - Aug. 2014 - May 2017
            Biola University, GPA 3.55+

    d. Skills
        Programming Languages:
            HTML
            CSS
            JavaScript
            PHP
            UML
            C++
            Ruby
            SmallTalk
        Other:
            Agile
            Linux
            Microsoft Office Suite
            65 WPM
            Proficient Presenter
            ASL
    e. Awards
        Biola Dean's List
            All three years
3. Interests (Tabs)
    a. Design
        I really like figuring out how things are designed whether visually or
        mechanically.
    b. Food
        I love food and the making of it.
    c. Spiritual Formation
        This is an area of personal growth that I am interested in. Mostly it
        comes down to reading a lot of books about the subject.

4. Projects (Tabs)
    a. CloudScape
        A meditation and Spiritual Formation application.

4. Photos (Tabs)
    a. Landscapes
        Pictures of friends (Filler until I get real photos)
    b. Design
        My pillow Project (Filler until I get real photos)
    c. CloudScape
        Favorite Background (Filler until I get real photos)

5. Library (Page)
    a. Design
        -None at this time
    b. Programming
        - "Practical Object-Oriented Desing in Ruby" ~ Sandi Metz
        - "Unix Power Tools" ~ Shelley Powers, Jerry Peek, Tim O'Reilly & Mike Loukides
        - "Head First Software Development" ~ Dan Pilone & Russ Miles
    c. Spiritual Formation
        - "In the Name of Jesus" ~ Henri Nouwen
        - "The Return of the Prodigal Son" ~ Henri Nouwen
        - "The Knowledge of the Holy" ~ A. W. Tozer
        - "Delighting in the Trinity" ~ Michael Reeves
    d. Quotes
        "Only a man of prayer can lead others to celebration because everyone
        who comes in contact with him realizes that he draws power from a source
        they cannot easily locate but they know is strong and deep. The freedom
        that gives him a certain independence is not authoritarian or distant.
        Rather, it makes him rise above immediate needs and most urgent desires
        or the people around him. He is deeply moved by things happening around
        him but he does not allow himself to be crushed by them. He listens
        attentively, speaks with the self-evident authority, but does not easily
        get excited or nervous. In all he says and does, he provides to a vision
        that guides life. To that vision he is obedient. It makes him distinguish
        sharply between what is important and what is not. He is not insensitive
        to what excites people, but evaluates their needs differently by seeing
        them in the perspective of his vision. He is happy and content when
        people listen to him, but he does not form cliques. He does not attach
        himself to anybody exclusively. What he says sounds convincing and
        obvious, but he does not force his opinion on anybody and is not
        irritated when people do not accept his ideas or do not fulfill his will.
        All this shows that his vision is what counts for him that he strives to
        make it come true."

                                            ~ Henri Nouwen, Creative Ministry

        "God, Grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the
        courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference.
        Living one day at a time, enjoying one moment at a time; accepting
        hardship as a pathway to peace, taking as Jesus did, this sinful world as
        it is, not as I would have it; trusting that You will make all things
        right if I surrender to Your will; so that I may be reasonably happy in
        this life, and supremely happy with You forever in the next Amen"

                                            ~ Reinhold Niebuhr

        "Calm me Lord, as you calmed the storm. Still me Lord, keep me from harm.
        Let all the turmoil within me cease. Enfold me Lord, in your peace."

                                            ~ David Adam

        "For with much wisdom comes much sorrow; the more knowledge, the more
        grief."

                                            ~Ecclesiastes 1:18

6. Resources (Page)
    a. Programming
        MySQL Cheat Sheet
            http://cse.unl.edu/~sscott/ShowFiles/SQL/CheatSheet/SQLCheatSheet.html
        w3schools
            https://www.w3schools.com/html/
        Emacs Cheat Sheet
            https://ccrma.stanford.edu/guides/package/emacs/emacs.html
        A JavaScript Grid Overlay for the Browser
            http://hashgrid.com
        For Creating CSS Resets
            http://cssreset.com
        
    b. Design
        Lynda.com
        Design Resources for Grid-Based Layouts
            960.gs
            designbygrid.com
            thegridsystem.org
        For Learning About Type Design
            webtypography.net
        A Tool for Creating Color Gradients
            colorzilla.com
        
    c. Food
        tacos
        peanut sauce
        Garlic Bread
    d. Spiritual Formation
        http://graftedlife.org/esda/search/
